---

author: Alberto Planas
date: 2025-11-12 17:00:00+01:00
layout: post
image: /wp-content/uploads/2025/02/pp.png
license: CC-BY-SA-3.0
title:GRUB2-BLS in openSUSE Tumbleweed is now the default
categories:
- Announcements
- openSUSE
- tumbleweed
- boot loader
tags:
- openSUSE
- bootloader
- grub2
- grub2-bls
- YaST
- FDE
- Full Disk Encryption

---

openSUSE Tumbleweed recently changed the default boot loader from GRUB2
to GRUB2-BLS when installed via YaST.

This follows the trending started by MicroOS of adopting boot loaders
that are compatible with the [boot loader
specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification/).
MicroOS is using `systemd-boot`, a very small and fast boot loader
from the `systemd` project.

One of the reasons of this change is that simplify the integration of
new features, like a full disk encryption based on the `systemd`
tools, that will make use of the TPM2 or FIDO2 tokens if they are
available.


## What is GRUB2-BLS

GRUB2-BLS is just GRUB2 but with some patches on top ported from the
Fedora project, that includes some compatibility for the boot loader
specification for Type #1 boot entries.  Those are small text files
stored in `/boot/efi/loader/entries` that the boot loader reads to
present the initial menu.

Each file contains a reference to the kernel, the `initrd` and the
kernel command line that will be used to boot the system, and can be
edited directly by the user or managed by tools like `bootctl` and
`sdbootutil`.

The next version of GRUB2 (2.14) those patches will be included as
part of the project itself, and the upgrade process will be
transparent for the final user.

Should be noted that the way that openSUSE deploy GRUB2-BLS is
different from the classical GRUB2.  GRUB2-BLS is deployed as a single
EFI binary installed (copied) in `/boot/efi/EFI/opensuse` that will
have embedded all the resources (like the modules, configuration file,
fonts, themes and graphics) that previously where placed in
`/boot/grub2`.


## Installation

The good news is that with the last version of YaST the process is
automatic.  The used just needs to follow the default steps and the
system will be based on GRUB2-BLS at the end.

The installed will propose first a large ESP partition of about 1GB.
This is required because now all the kernel and `initrd`s will be
placed in the FAT32 ESP partition, in `/boot/efi/opensuse-tumbleweed`.

Of course the user can select during the installation a different boot
loader, like the classical `GRUB2` or `systemd-boot`.  This can be
done in the "Installation Settings" screen presented at the end of the
installation proposal.  Just select the "Booting" header link and
choose your boot loader from there.


## Usage

With GRUB2-BLS we will not have anymore the grub2 tools, like
`grub2-mkconfig` or `grub2-install`.  Most of them are not required
anymore.  The boot entries are generated dynamically by the boot
loader, so there is no need anymore of generating GRUB2 configuration
files, and the installation is just copying the new EFI file into the
correct place.

The upgrade process is also done automatically calling `sdbootutil
update` by the snapper plugins or the SUSE module tools, so if btrfs
is used all the management will be done transparently by this
infrastructure, as was done in the traditional boot loader.

Updating the kernel command line can be now be done by editing the
boot loader, or the `/etc/kernel/cmdline` and calling `sdbootutil update-all-entries`
to propagate the change into the boot entries of the current snapshot.
