---
author: Shobha Tyagi 
date: 2025-06-10 16:00:00+01:00
layout: post
image: /wp-content/uploads/2025/06/osas.png
license: CC-BY-SA-3.0
title: Asia Summit Call For Host is Here 
categories:
- Announcements
- openSUSE
- Summit
tags:
- openSUSE
- Contribution
- Community
- Developers
- Project
- Asia Summit
- Faridabad
- India

---

### openSUSE.Asia Summit 2026: Call For Host

The **openSUSE.Asia Summit** is an annual conference that brings together openSUSE contributors and enthusiasts from across Asia. It serves as a valuable platform for face-to-face collaboration, knowledge sharing, and community building. The summit primarily highlights the openSUSE distribution, exploring its applications in both personal and enterprise environments, while also promoting the broader open source culture.

As part of its mission to promote openSUSE across Asia, the [**openSUSE.Asia Summit Organizing Committee**](https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Asia_Organization_Committee) invites local communities to take on the exciting challenge of hosting the **2026 summit**. The committee is committed to supporting you every step of the way to ensure a successful and impactful event.

### Important Dates

- **August 1**: Deadline for application 
- **August 30**: Presentation at openSUSE.Asia Summit 2025 
- **October 31**: Announcement of the following host
 
We will invite you to join our regular online meetings, giving you the opportunity to observe and learn the process of organizing the event. Additionally, you will be expected to present your proposal at the upcoming summit in **Faridabad, India**. 
The submitted proposals will be reviewed by the organizing committee. During this process, the committee may reach out with additional questions or requests for further information.

<h2 align="center">How to Submit?</h2>
Please email your proposal to both **summit@lists.opensuse.org** and **opensuseasia-summit@googlegroups.com**. 
Because the former address does not allow attachments, you need to upload your proposal somewhere and share the link to it.

### The proposal should contain:
- **Venue** 
- **How to reach your city and venue** 
- **Budget Estimation** 
  - Conference Venue
  - T-shirt 
  - Tea break, Lunch, Dinner, Conference Tour, etc. 
  - Introduction to your community who will organize the summit 
- **Introduction to your community that will organize the summit**

Please refer to [**openSUSE.Asia Summit Tips for Organizers**](https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Asia_Summit_Tips_for_Organizers) before writing your proposal.

**We are looking forward to hearing from you soon!**

<meta name="openSUSE, Open Source, development, Community, Developers, Project, Asia Summit, Faridabad, India" content="HTML,CSS,XML,JavaScript">


