---
author: Daniel García Moreno
date: 2024-09-11 08:00:00+20:00
layout: post
license: CC-BY-SA-3.0
slug: python313
title: Python 3.13, with and without GIL
image: /wp-content/uploads/2020/09/pythonlogo.png
categories:
- Announcements
- Tumbleweed
- openSUSE
tags:
- Python
- openSUSE
- SUSE
- Developers
- Open Source
---

Python 3.13 RC2 is now available in Tumbleweed. This new version of
the Python interpreter will be released in October 2024.

There's [a lot of changes](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130rc2/)
and new features in 3.13, but we're also bringing exiting experimental
features in Tumbleweed.

### Experimental JIT compiler

The default (`python313`) build has the flag
`--enable-experimental-jit=yes-off`. This means that if you want to
use this [experimental JIT](https://docs.python.org/3.13/whatsnew/3.13.html#an-experimental-just-in-time-jit-compiler)
you can enable with a environment variable:

```
$ PYTHON_JIT=1 python313
```

You can find more information about the JIT compiler and how can this
improve the performance in the
[PEP-744](https://peps.python.org/pep-0744/).

### Free threaded CPython (no GIL)

With this new version of Python interpreter there's an option to build
without the famous [Global Interpreter Lock](https://docs.python.org/3.13/whatsnew/3.13.html#free-threaded-cpython),
aka GIL. This is a really experimental feature, but why not have this
on Tumbleweed? So we decided to build also this new version with a new
package `python313-nogil`.

This new package is an isolated interpreter, so you can install
without conflicts with `python313`. The package is building with the
`--disable-gil` option and it provides the `/usr/bin/python3.13t`
binary. It uses by default `/usr/lib/python3.13t/site-packages` for
third-party libs, so with the default configuration it won't use any
python 3.13 module.

This means that now you can use `threading.Thread` in the Python
interpreter and it will be actual threads, so at the end using threads
with `python3.13t` interpreter should be a lot faster.

There's no packages for this interpreter in Tumbleweed, at this
moment. So if you want to use third party libraries you should use
virtualenv and pip for that:

```
$ python3.13t -m venv free-threaded-env
$ source free-threaded-env/bin/activate
(free-threaded-env) $ pip install requests
(free-threaded-env) $ python3
Python 3.13.0rc2 experimental free-threading build (main, Sep 07 2024, 16:06:06) [GCC] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import sys; sys._is_gil_enabled()
False
```
