---

author: Alberto Planas
date: 2026-07-07 17:00:00+02:00
layout: post
image: /wp-content/uploads/2026/05/microos.png
license: CC-BY-SA-3.0
title: Support of XBOOTLDR in openSUSE
categories:
- Announcements
- openSUSE
- Tumbleweed
- MicroOS
tags:
- openSUSE 
- systemd-boot
- xbootldr
- Open Source 
- MicroOS
- systemd
- BLS

---


## More Space

openSUSE moved to `BLS` some time ago using the bootloaders `systemd-boot` and `GRUB2-BLS` that nowadays is mostly a repackaging of the traditional `GRUB2`, as the main patches are already merged since 2.16.

This decision also required more space in the `ESP` partition, as now the kernel and `initrd`s of all snapshots are stored in `/boot/efi/$TOKEN`, where `$TOKEN` can be the `machine-id`, `opensuse-tumbleweed` or `opensuse-microos`, depending on the installation.  For new installations this is not a problem, as the installer (`YaST` or `Agama`) will recommend a large (1Gb) partition, but for old installation the migration can be problematic, to the extreme that if the partition cannot be resized, it is advisable to keep the old `GRUB2-EFI` bootloader.

But if we decide to use `systemd-boot` there is a escape hatch: `XBOOTLDR`


## A New Partition

Basically `XBOOTLDR` is a new partition that can live anywhere in the disk.  The `ESP` has some limitations in that regard, and usually is the first partition in the system.  If present, `systemd-boot` will look for the menu entries and the kernel / `initrd`s in there, freeing the `ESP` of that responsibility.

The file system of this partition needs to be also `FAT32`, like the `ESP` as this is a limitation of the `UEFI`, and during the creation needs have a specific `GPT` identifier (`GUID`).  With `fsdisk` we can create a new partition and assign the type `142` or `xbootldr`, this will assign the correct `GUID` into the partition table and `systemd-boot` will recognize it.


## Mount Points

Because of this new partition, the mount points needs to change too.  As commented, the traditional place where openSUSE put the `ESP` is in `/boot/efi` but now we have two places.  The UAPI recommendation is to have always the boot entries and the kernel in `/boot`, and only if there is a separated partition for the boot loader, then this will be placed in `/efi`.  Because this is the case now, we will need to update out `/etc/fstab`:

```
UUID=4165-E891 /efi  vfat utf8,dmask=0077,noexec,nodev,nosuid,nosymfollow 0 2
UUID=414C-528C /boot vfat utf8,dmask=0077,noexec,nodev,nosuid,nosymfollow 0 2
```

Change the `UUID` to point to the correct device.

`sdbootutil` can find both partitions and write in the correct place now, depending if we are updating the bootloader or adding new entries.

Now we can move the boot entries and the kernel directories, both placed in the old `/boot/efi/loader` path.  We can manually move it into the new partition, just keep `loader/random-seed` and `loader/loader.conf` in the old place, but the rest of the `loader/` directory can be moved.

See the `Further documentation` section for links with a more detailed description.


## Further Documentation

* [Migrating from GRUB2-EFI](https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:MicroOS/FDE#Migrating_from_GRUB2-EFI)
* [MicroOS FDE](https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:MicroOS/FDE#XBOOTLDR)
* [UAPI.1 The Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification/)
