---
author: openSUSE Online Volunteer Team
date: 2022-07-01 22:44:33+00:00
layout: post
license: CC-BY-SA-3.0
title: openSUSE.Asia Summit 2022 Logo Competition Announcement
image: /assets/images/2022-07-01/oS-CFL.png
categories:
- Announcements
- Coference
- Events
- Summit
tags:
- Logo Competition
- websites
- openSUSE
- Asia Summit
---

<h1 align="center">openSUSE.Asia Online Summit 2022 Logo Competition</h1>
Today, we will start a logo competition for openSUSE.Asia Summit 2022. A logo is an essential material for the successful summit. As you have seen, the former openSUSE.Asia summits have their unique logos reflecting the communities where the summit took place. Following tradition, we have logo competition to collect great logo for this year’s summit. Notably, this year summit has two parts. One is Asia Summit Main Track with Virtual Online Conference, the other is Local Part which will be held in each local area. This logo is for Asia Summit Main Track. So this logo will represent Asia.

The competition is open now and ends on 23 July 2022. The organizing team will send “Geeko Mystery Box” as an appreciation for the best logo designed.
<p><strong>Deadline: </strong>23 July 2022</p>
<p><strong>Announcement Winner: </strong>Week of August 14</p>
The Rules of the contest are as follows:
  
  * The logo should be licensed under [CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) and 
  allow everyone to use the logo without attribution (BY) 
  if your work is used as the logo of openSUSE.Asia Summit 2022. 
  Note that the attribution is going to be shown on the summit website.
  * Design must be original and should not include any third party materials conflicting with CC-BY-SA 4.0 with the attribution exception.
  * Both monochromes and color formats are essential for submission.
  * Submissions must be in SVG format.
  * Design should reflect the openSUSE community in Asia.
  * The logo should avoid the following things:
      * Brand names or trademarks of any kind.
      * Illustrations that may consider inappropriate, offensive, hateful, tortuous, defamatory, slanderous or libelous.
      * Sexually explicit or provocative images.
      * Violence or weapons.
      * Alcohol, tobacco, or drug use imagery.
      * Discrimination based on race, gender, religion, nationality, disability, sexual orientation or age.
      * Bigotry, racism, hatred or harm against groups or individuals
      * Religious, political, or nationalist imagery.
  
  * The logo should follow “openSUSE Project Trademark Guidelines” published at [HERE](https://en.opensuse.org/File:OpenSUSE_Trademark_Guidelines.pdf)
  * The [branding guidelines](https://opensuse.github.io/branding-guidelines/) will be helpful to design your logo (optional) 

Please submit your design to opensuseasia-summit@googlegroups.com with the following entries:

  * Subject: openSUSE.Asia Summit 2022 Logo Design - [your name]
  * Your name and mail address to contact 
  * A document about philosophy of the design (txt or pdf)
  * Vector file of the design with SVG format ONLY.
  * Bitmap of design in attachment — image size: 256*256 px at least, PNG format. 
  * File size less than 512 KB.

The openSUSE.Asia Summit Committee will decide on the logos, subject to the condition, that the logo meets all the requirements. The final decision will be made by openSUSE.Asia Summit Committee and it may not be the highest scored design.
We recommend the artist to use [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/), a powerful, free and open source vector graphics tool for all kinds of design.

